[Music]
in south africa
christie is on route to see shelley and
put her through her paces
and he's brought some high-tech
equipment
[Music]
so we'll just walk this piece of rope
down it's two pulleys down at the bottom
this is an electric lure it will test
shelley's speed and acceleration
this is as close as she'll be able to
get to
normal or natural hunting basically
they're running at full speed
catching something and then getting the
reward afterwards
in total it's about 150 meters
the average cheetah hunt lasts for
around 180 meters
so this will be a realistic test for
shelley
all good so we can just go and collect
shilling now
it's taken chris do three years of
unwavering dedication
to get shelley to this point not every
cheetah here develops good enough wild
skills to be released
but christo has high hopes for her she's
the
best runner that we've got here at the
facility
even though she was android she still
got so much wildness left in her
um and that you can especially see when
it comes to the lure
where she just immediately focus in on
that and goes into hunting mode almost
to see that excitement and she can't
wait for that to happen
and you don't see that with all the
tutors though
a lot rides on how she performs
you can see that she knows what's gonna
happen now and he's already starting to
focusing
on when the movement is going to happen
as soon as the lure goes
shelley's instinct to chase should kick
in
[Music]
cheetahs can accelerate from 0 to 60
miles per hour
in less than three seconds
rivalling the fastest sports car
propelling shelley forward are fast
twitch muscle fibers
generating four times more explosive
power than a human's
a flexible spine and long spindly legs
produce a stride up to eight meters half
of which
is spent in the air
just like a successful hunt in the wild
shelley gets her reward
after a run she'll get a snack she just
simulates it
she's hunted now she gets a piece of
meat basically
but this incredible physical feat takes
its toll
most hunts last less than a minute
because cheetahs are in danger of
overheating
she won't start walking around
immediately and that's uh in a while
where they're most vulnerable because
now they're tired
lying around sleeping and then
potentially a lion why you know
something could come in
hey
he's lost his first teeth
cocky's lost his canines eight months
old and the first
baby teeth have gone you're growing up
boy
ah they still hurt me
yeah they're still sharp
being with them like this did have its
problems though i wanted them to be more
independent but as long as we were
walking with them
they'd be looking to us for guidance the
whole time
also i simply couldn't keep up with them
when they set off hunting
nor could i hide as well as they could
in the grass
we'd reached a point in their growing up
when i had to start putting more
distance between us
for me to stay close and not disturb
their prey
i began to use the car as a mobile hyatt
most of the animals here in leiwa are
used to seeing vehicles and they pretty
much ignore them
this way i could keep a close eye on
toki and sambu as they practiced hunting
without disturbing them
or their prey
and they certainly needed a lot of
practice
time and again they'd chase animals that
were way too big
and potentially very dangerous for them
[Music]
a direct kick from a zebra could easily
crush their skull and my heart was in my
throat every time they decided to take
on the heavyweights
[Applause]
[Music]
there were times when it felt just too
close
you may be fast on your feet you've got
a lot to learn
kenya famous for its big cats
the supreme hunters
[Music]
cheetahs specialize in hunting at speed
though fast they're fragile creatures
built
to sprint after small prey
they don't have the strength or weight
of a lion to bring down larger animals
this male is different he doesn't hunt
alone
he's learnt that there is strength in
numbers
[Music]
but here there are not just two but
three
cheaters a band of brothers
[Music]
they have changed their tactics and by
doing so
have taken their prey by surprise
they have learned that working together
they can bring down
large prey
[Music]
an ostrich a bird that towers over a
cheetah
and is more than twice as heavy
it can't fly to escape danger but it can
lash out
with a deadly kick
a female unaware as yet of any danger
even with three of them this is still
highly risky
if one gets injured the other two
couldn't hope to tackle such large prey
[Music]
on the other hand if they get it right
the rewards
are huge
the male has spotted one of the brothers
but only one
it's not too worried
then suddenly there are three
the female is slower to realize the
danger and the cheetahs switch tons
[Music]
it takes the combined effort and weight
of all three brothers
to bring down this powerful bird even
now the ostrich could land a fatal kick
so far the brothers are winning
ostriches have yet to find a way to foil
such techniques
a cat with a target inside
you know the focus in the eyes just the
look of that cat
she just raises her shoulders up keeping
her head in exactly the same position
but the rest of the body comes up to
join it
and then she's ready to go where is she
here she comes
here she comes flat out
[Applause]
straight towards me oh
look go turning
turning flat out look at this right past
the car
there she goes there she goes right
behind
right behind me she's almost on it
almost done it got it she's got it okay
she's got a meal fantastic for the cubs
god that was unbelievable
i mean it was like straight down the
barrel
ears back flat out
honey you really are a great hunter
the boys had a mischievous streak that
led them into potential trouble on a
regular basis
[Music]
by now they should have been fast enough
to dodge the sudden sweeps of the rhinos
horn
but it's easy to underestimate just how
fast these huge animals can be
and even if the cubs were fairly safe i
felt pretty vulnerable
[Music]
talk about picking the wrong prey
that's about as ambitious as any cheetah
has ever been
i may have been more exposed when i was
on foot but it was
an incredible thrill to share their
world like this
i never dreamt i'd have the chance to
walk with cheetahs
this intimacy also allowed me to see
things i quite frankly could never have
spotted if i were following a purely
wild family
[Music]
you